# tube plotter cli
A script the plots YouTube thumbnails on a .gexf file exported from Gephi collected using the DMI's YouTube Data Tools. Can also be used to download the thumbnails from YouTube.


## Requirements
* Python 3 (Python 2 not supported)


## Input file characteristics
This script was developed taking in GEXF files generated by Gephi (0.9.2), which are marked as GEXF 1.3, and containing data collected from the DMI's YouTube Data Tools in GDF format. Remember to apply a layout algorithm first.


## Installation
1. Download the scripts
```
git clone https://github.com/danielfeloiola/tube_plotter_cli
```
2. Install the dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Rename config_sample.txt to config.txt and edit the settings according to your use of the script (see section below)


## Configuration
The config file contains several options which are all described in its comments. The first step is *mandatory* but the other options can be left as default.

1. InputGraph: should be set to the *absolute path* of the GEXF file.

2. CopyImagesResized: used to choose to make resized copies of the images. Will make the plot lighter to load.

3. ResizedImageFolderName: name for the folder that will be created in case option 2 is enabled.

4. ResizeMaxWidth and ResizeMaxHeight: maximum dimensions for the thumbnails. Aspect ratio will be preserved.

5. ImageMaxDispWidth and ImageMaxDispHeight: maximum dimensions for plotting the images. Adjust this to prevent overlaps of images and to favor an overview of the map.

6. RestricttoPage: plot the images within the page limits or not.

7. OutputWidth and OutputHeight: size of the output page in pixels.

8. DownloadMode: download images from the dataset. If set to yes, images will be saved on a folder, and the SVG will contain links for the files. If set to no, the resulting SVG file will contain links to YouTube - and the thumbnails will only be visible if the file is opened on a web browser.

9. DownloadFolder: folder for downloading images if option 8 is enabled


## Execution
Run the script "tube_plotter.py" in a terminal window with the code
```
python plotter.py
```

Check the terminal for possible errors and for progress reporting.
As usual, the script can be interrupted by pressing Ctrl+C.

## Credits
Made by Daniel Loiola, 2021.
Based on a similar script by André Mintz. Feb 2018.

## Disclaimer
**As-is software, no support or warranty provided.**
